---
layout: post
title: What even is a window manager?
---

Someone i know had left a .txt file on my computer with only three words in it. 

xmonad
stumpwm
dwm

i had no idea what these meant but after sum research i learned these things are called window managers. I wanted to try and install these since i knew it would be a fun learning experience.

so, after a while of browsing around i decided to go ahead and give dwm a chance.

reason? written in C so it is convenient with 140. also, the way to configure dwm is to change the source code directly and recompile. it sure sounds like a hell lot of fun. also a very painful learning experience. but i like suffering anyway, disco inferno, forza adana (ew ew)

so what i did was pretty easy and not actually worth a blog post but ill do anyway.

i just downloaded the source code for dwm,
compiled it and put it where it is supposed to be.

then created an xsession file and put my background and keyboard commands in it.

that was it, really. ill put battery on and time on the top bar sometime as well.



using dwm for a couple of days and it really feels nice. Im sure there is still life quality improvements to be done, such as
 resizing windows easily and removing this tiny little bar i have on the far right of my terminals



So i took a status bar code from someone, it had cpu freq, batt and time

needed some polishing

the first thing i tried was to put the source code into usr/local/bin/dwm.

now there is one small problem with this action. That is not a directory. That is the executable of my window manager, and by 
copying some code directly into it i desdroyed my wm. I couldn't start my default session or my dwm session, but luckily there was
a default xfce session through which i recompiled my dwm and put it where it is supposed to be.

then i realized that *copying the source code into some directory wasn't the way to go.* i compiled and ran the status.c file, and
 it worked! kind of. It properly gave me the error "energy_now cannot be read"

tracked the BAT0 BAT1 confusion

deleted the calculation chaos, yay for my battery


commented the whole cpu thingy

added to .xsession file with a & so that it doesn't wait for it to return.

Works all fine.
